# Smart-Crop-field-Controller
# ***SMART INDIA HACKATHON-2018***

**LINK OF THE WEBSITE:**
http://smartagriculture.atspace.cc/ 


A novel scheme is proposed here to build up a water-saving automated irrigation cum pump controller which exploits the advantage of Fuzzy logic, 802.11 based serial Wi-Fi (P2P) wireless sensor network (WSN) and IoT to monitor the field and supply water, fertilizer and environmental data timely. The sensor array consists of soil moisture, toxic gas sensor, pH and ultrasonic sensors to amass information like soil moisture, nutrient efficiency of crops and water level regularly. Along with this, the information obtained from the local weather station via GSM/Wi-Fi network such as air temperature, humidity and the weather forecast are logged to battery powered Arduino Fuzzy controller installed on the field as well as Thingspeak cloud to make a decision if the soil actually needs watering and the amount of water to avoid mineral loss and rotting the plants using recycling of water which can provide a scientific basis for water-saving irrigation. The time to time monitoring and logging the filed data to online cloud helps farmers decide about the crops to be planted, sowing seeds and the requirement of fertilizer through SMS/Call facility of cell- phone. The system can call the farmer or vice-versa to turn on/off the pump to water the land as and when required in a password protected manner allowing the control to the authorized person only, in the form of stored voice messages in regional language. The novelty of the proposed system is in case of any emergency weather forecast (torrential rain or drought) obtained from the local weather station, system can adjust the predefined time for watering and monitoring the land thereby making it an intelligent decision-making system. The excess water due to heavy rain fall is stored in reservoir by controlling two pumps wirelessly for future irrigation in case of shortage of rainfall. The system also can automatically maintain the entire duration of different crops to be watered in a season.

# PROBLEM DEFINITION  
In many places of the world, irrigation is conventionally aimed to accomplish the optimum supply of water to the roots of the plant or crops while maintaining the water level of the soil as much close to field capacity as possible to enhance productivity. To avoid the moisture stress during the growing season when the crops and fruits are ripe, constant irrigation is necessary with normal rainfall. The increasing demand of the food supplies requires a rapid improvement in food production technology. The motivation of this project came from the countries where agriculture plays an important part in shaping up the economy and the climatic conditions are isotropic but still we are not able to make full use of agricultural resources because of lack of rains, incessant rains, and uncontrolled supply of land reservoir water and manual intervention of controlling water pump.  As agriculture uses a lot of water, extraction of water at regular intervals from earth is reducing the water level as a result of which the zones of un-irrigated land are gradually increasing. In addition to that, the uncontrolled use of water supply leads to wastage of water inadvertently. Though water seems abundant, however, less than 1% of the world’s liquid freshwater is available for human use and about 70% of it is used for irrigation. Different plants do not share the same traits especially about the amount of water needed. There are some plants like paddy in India which needs to be watered regularly with the water level sustained at around 20cm at the root. On the contrary cactus just requires the sprinkling twice in a week. As the proper flow of water determines the plants to survive so the moisture content i.e. Humidity of the soil must be monitored to prevent the crops from losing strength.  Unfortunately, old fashioned manual farming targets the watering of plant roots without any precision. The farmers irrigate the land at regular intervals by turning the water-pump on/off as and when required. This process is time consuming and sometimes the water supply to the land is delayed due to which the crops dry out. Water deficiency deteriorates plants growth before visible wilting occurs. If supplemental irrigation of optimum amount of water is not done in proper time then procrastinating irrigation could lead to a massive loss affecting country’s economy adversely. Secondly the farmers don’t accommodate with anisotropic weather as various factors such as temperature, humidity, rainfall, wind affects the environment severely thereby changing the consumption of water needed to survive the plant drastically. Had the local weather elements been monitored and logged regularly with the soil moisture and the water level as well then, the water would be used more effectively and exactly on time when the plant needs watering.  So, it is important to minimize the wastage of water and the exact timing to sprinkle the plant as well which motivated researchers an emphasis on developing methods of irrigation to reduce large water loss i.e. maximize the use of water efficiently. Thus, it is proved that the automated irrigation system can serve many purposes straddling from watering plant at times to effective use of the water in dry land and where water supply is scarce and finally reducing the manual intervention of controlling water pump so that the end user like farmer, gardener can use it efficiently to water their land. 

# PLANNING & APPROACH
